Myst: [evil cackle]
Hyunckel: All those
years you spent
teaching me the
ways of darkness...
you were planning to
use me as your next vessel.
Myst: It's far too late
to be realizing that.
Back when I found you -
after you'd abandoned Avan's
teachings, an idea came to me.
As strong as it was,
the body I inhabited still
belonged to King Vearn.
It would never
be mine to keep.
Even if I found a replacement,
there was no guarantee
such a host would be
compatible with my energy.
But if I were to raise
one from scratch...
and train it to
wield the greatest
forces of darkness
imaginable...
I could shape it into the ideal
vessel to serve as my spare.
Then, should the time come
when the Dark King required
me to return his body,
I'd already have
another great weapon,
waiting to take its place.
Hyunckel: A weapon...
Is that all I
ever was to you?
A weapon to be wielded?
Myst: That's right.
You're my weapon.
A tool. Nothing more.
There were times
when I was tempted
to take control of you sooner,
but I'm glad
I've kept you around.
In the end, you serve
me - like it or not.
[cackling]
[agonized howl]
Don't give in, Hyunckel!
Myst: [chuckle]
I told you, it's too late.
I've found your soul.
And now, Hyunckel, this is
where you meet your end.
Unlike that annoying little
girl, when I erase your essence,
I'm going to make sure
that it's permanent.
Once your vital force
is disintegrated,
this body will be left
as my living puppet...
Then, the two of us
shall become one.
My spirit will fuse
with your body,
creating a warrior whose
unmatched strength
will rival even that which
I wielded as Mystvearn.
Consider this an honor...
In a way, you get to be a
successor to King Vearn himself!
Myst: This is...
A-Aura of Light? No, no...
I don't believe it!
Hyunckel, did you...
How did you focus Aura of
Light into your own soul?!
Hyunckel: With my injuries,
I knew I couldn't move well
enough to fend you off...
This was all I could
do to stop you.
Myst: But you
couldn't have gathered
this much energy
in an instant...
There's no way you
could've prepared for this...
Not unless you'd
already figured out
that I was intending
to possess you...
How could you
possibly know that?!
I didn't.
I just had a strange feeling...
that you were going
to choose me.
So I took precautions.
Myst: [overwhelmed screech]
Why - you little...
[screeching]
Larhart: Hyunckel!
You all right?
Where's Myst?
Hyunckel: He's gone...
I beat him from within.
Crocodine [thought]:
Then the struggle between
the master of darkness
and his pupil...
has finally come to an end.
Hym [thought]:
I hope Myst was happy.
He got what he wanted:
To die inside
the "ultimate form"
he'd been refining
all these years.
Hyunckel: Master...
I almost don't
want to ask...
But what am I to you?
Avan: Isn't it obvious?
You're my friend.
Come on, Vearn. Why won't
you make your move?
I thought you said that
this was supposed to be
your "ultimate" body?
Just be patient.
Maam: Master?
Oh, good. You're up,
Maam. That was close.
Myst! Where did he...
No need to worry. I don't think
he'll be bothering us again.
You drove him out of my body
and destroyed him, didn't you?
You always have a trick
up your sleeve, don't you?
Err...
Well, actually...
It was, ahem... well,
something along those lines.
Of course, I couldn't have done
it without everyone's help.
You know how these things go.
[laughing]
Avan [thought]: I understand.
You'd rather not
let her know about
your dark
connection with Myst.
I'll let you tell her
in your own time.
But make no mistake, Hyunckel.
I haven't missed it. I can see
how important Maam is to you.
It's perfectly
clear how you feel.
Maam: B-But...
But Popp...
Maam: Popp and
Grand Master, they...
Myst still killed
both of them.
[whistling]
Ah... You were saying,
sleepy head?
Chiu: Here we go...
Hm?
Maam: What... the hell...
are you doing here?
Popp: Jeez, relax.
Can't you tell?
We're healing.... This is
healing time, not shouting time.
[chuckling]
I may have forgotten
to mention...
Before I assumed
Killvearn's identity,
I rescued these two from
Popp's deflected Medroa spell.
Avan: Once they were
out of harm's way,
I put on my disguise and
left them both unconscious
- but alive!
With all the excitement, I never
got a chance to explain...
But as you can see,
they're safe and sound.
Woke up just before you did.
It's not like they
meant to worry you.
Honestly, it's
really my mistake.
Uh, Maam, are you...
You're not even
listening to me, are you?
Avan: Maam?
Maam, let's not...
Oh, c'mon. What are you
being all prickly about now?
Wait, don't tell me. I know.
You're thinking, "It's not fair.
I should've been the one who
got to heal Popp." Aren't you?
Yeah, that's it, isn't it?
Maam: Y-You...
Idiot! Do you...
M-Maam, take
it easy on him...
Maam: Have any idea...
Brokeena: Oh, boy.
Well, there go all the healing
spells I casted on him.
Are we totally sure
she doesn't still have
some residual evil in her?
Nah. She's definitely
back to normal.
They're always like this.
Chiu: And it's always
Popp's fault, too.
Speaking of back
to normal, Captain...
I've got bad news.
Because it looks like
these Medicinal Herbs
aren't going to
do a thing for me.
You're sure you can't cast
any Healing-type magic?
I cannot!
Okay! Let's get up there
and help Master Dai.
Everyone ready?
Popp: E-E-Excuse me?
I think... I might
still need a minute.
All: [sighing]
Pull yourself together.
That was a bit much...
Maam: I know... I mean, I was
just so worried about him.
He's always such a dummy.
Has anybody ever told
you that you've got
a strange way of
expressing relief?
Let's go, you wimp.
Get up already.
Popp: Please....
Cast me a Heal spell...
Maam: Cast it yourself.
On second thought...
Popp may have a point.
Anyone who's taken
major damage
should stay here or head
back to Loroi Valley.
No. After everything
we've faced,
there's no going back now.
Sorry to steal your
line, Hyunckel,
but I want to see this
battle through to the end.
Even if it costs you
everything? You sure?
Truthfully?
I'm afraid to go on.
Even with Myst in
control of his body,
Vearn's power was already
close to perfection.
And up there, he now has
the elder body's Magic Power
and intellect to go along
with that terrifying might.
Both forms were hard enough to
face when they were apart...
With the pair united again,
what we're up against
is unimaginable.
Larhart: Then why
bother going?
Popp: I could ask you
the same thing, Larhart.
After all, you couldn't do a
thing to stop Mystvearn either.
Don't you remember?
Knowing that our next opponent's
gonna be even stronger...
Why would you still go?
A ridiculous question.
Larhart: I may not be able
to do anything myself,
but that doesn't matter so long
as Master Dai is victorious.
If I must perish
for that cause,
then it's my duty as the last
of the Dragon Masters to do so.
Perhaps I'll just be a
shield for our Hero. So be it.
That honor alone is all
the reason I need to go.
Popp: Well, there you have it.
The rest of us feel
exactly the same way.
Popp: No one here believes
they can actually face
the Dark King themselves.
We know this is probably
going to be a one-way trip...
But, still. We've
made up our minds.
Win or lose, we're still
going. Besides, it's our duty.
Dai's up there... and
he'd do the same for us.
Popp: The way I see it,
the more shields we can
get him, the better.
I can't argue with that.
Then let's move out.
Dai can't wait forever.
It should only take
another five seconds or so.
Dai: Huh?
Five... Four...
Three... Two...
One... Zero.
W-What is that?
Dai: I'm... I'm
getting stronger...
Yeah, my body's healing!
What?
True Vearn: You should
be fully healed now.
Wait a second. Was that...
Leona's Fullheal spell?
That's right.
True Vearn: The Fullheal
she casted on you
while you were unaffected
by Healing-type magic...
it has finally taken effect.
I suspected you would revert to
your lesser form before long,
and it appears as
though I was right.
When you fight beyond your
limits for extended periods
using an energy
similar to Dark Aura,
such backlashes to the body
have been known to occur.
It is said that weaker beings
can even perish from them.
The timing will vary, but it's
possible to determine when
someone will be struck by
this revitalizing blast
by studying their
eyes and complexion.
I don't get it. Why did you
wait for that to happen?
Dai: There's only one reason.
It's because... he wants to
fight me at full strength.
What? Why?!
True Vearn: [laughing]
You're remarkably
perceptive, Dai.
It's been a very long while
since I last used this body.
To crush an enemy
who's not at their best
would be an utterly
boring endeavor.
I prefer a little more sport.
Besides, if you want
to face me like this,
you'll only be wasting your time
unless you're fully recovered.
[chuckling]
Gimme a break!
You're just trying to
intimidate us, aren't you?
Threaten all you want.
It won't work on us!
Leona [thought]:
What's wrong with me?
I... I can't speak...
Are you kidding?
All he did was
glare at me, and...
it's like my body's frozen.
True Vearn: I assure
you, Princess,
I'm not trying to
threaten you or show off.
As a matter of fact...
I genuinely look forward
to another round against Dai.
It's bound to be our greatest.
The Secret Spell of Frozen
Time has been broken...
Which means, until the
next full solar eclipse,
a few centuries from now...
I'll be stuck in this form.
I might as well
make good use of it.
However, you've taken
these few centuries
from my immortal lifespan.
If I don't make
you pay for that,
then I'll be letting you
get away with robbery.
But before I exact
my price, you may...
amuse me as best as you can.
Leona [thought]:
He's pure evil.
I understand where
he's coming from.
You what? Dai, come on.
Don't be stupid.
What are you even saying here?
Now that he's taken
his true form,
he's even stronger
than before.
Isn't that right, Vearn?
Clearly.
And I mean...
much, much stronger.
Dai: Being that strong,
without any challengers
in the world,
it's just boring.
I'm not saying that
I'm looking forward to
this fight like he is...
But I see where
he's coming from.
I sorta know how
that feels myself.
But, Dai...
Yes, you're like me.
There's no need to
pretend otherwise.
Descended from warriors,
your heart beats for
the thrill of battle.
You can try to hide it,
but no matter what you do,
your true nature
is undeniable.
The Child of a Dragon
whose foolishness
drew him to care
for the humans...
And now I shall tear off that
laughable mask of innocence...
and bring you torment
beyond your imagining!
Leona, better hurry
and find some cover.
It's okay.
I'm still me and
nothing can change that.
I'm still everybody's Dai.
True Vearn: As I've
already told you,
it's been thousands of years
since the last time
I fought in this body.
I can't hold back its power,
so this might be
over rather quickly.
I hope you'll forgive
me if that's the case.
Pompous speeches before a
fight aren't really my style.
Now! Zapple!
Oh?
Leona [thought]: That's Giga
Strash! He's going for it.
I'll just have to use...
the most powerful
attack that I know!
[laughing]
Quite correct.
I do enjoy that about you.
I won't deny that.
You may be bold, but
you're also rational.
Although at first glace, it
can seem like recklessness,
your attacks are always
firmly rooted in logic.
Dai [thought]:
Now that I've seen
how strong he
is in this form...
Now that I know our
difference in strength,
there's no doubt about it...
My strongest attack is the
best way to take him on...
Maybe the only way...
Except, it takes
some time to prepare,
which means it's
gonna be tricky
to use in a close-quartered
match like this, so...
This has to be
a head-on approach!
Very well.
Then, I suppose...
I should respond in kind,
and show you a skill
worthy of such an attack.
True Vearn: [chuckling]
I'm impressed that
you were able sense
the danger of this
stance so quickly.
It is called the Demonic
Guard of Heaven and Earth.
"Demonic Guard of
Heaven and Earth?"
Leona [thought]: I've
never even heard of that.
What could it be?
To my eyes, it seems like he's
merely taken a simple stance...
No matter how it seems, there's
no way it can be that simple.
Just look at how
Dai's sweating.
Whatever's coming, it's big.
Now, let our greatest
skills clash,
and when the dust settles...
We'll see which one of
us was destined to fall.
True Vearn: What's wrong, Dai?
Having second thoughts?
You should know
I wasn't bluffing
when I said your
judgement was correct.
When facing my true form,
your Giga Strash is
indeed the best attack
to use against me...
Win or lose,
it's your only chance.
Dai [thought]: He's right.
Giga Strash is by far
the strongest attack I know.
Dai: This is...
This is my only option.
Here goes!
Leona [thought]:
Vearn's not dodging...
Is he going to try
and take the hit?!
Giga Strash!
True Vearn: Phoenix Wing!
Calamitous End!
Kaiser Phoenix!
Oh no...
True Vearn:
While my hand heals,
allow me to explain what you've
just witnessed, Princess.
How did I strike
Dai down so easily?
That's the secret to the Demonic
Guard of Heaven and Earth.
It's all in the name.
"Heaven" represents the attack.
"Earth" is the defense.
And "Demonic" symbolizes...
the use of magical abilities.
True Vearn: I see
you've put it together.
When I inhabit this form,
I can attack, defend, and use
magic all in a single instant.
The impenetrable stance
which allows me to do so
is the Demonic Guard
of Heaven and Earth.
As a withered old man,
the best I could muster
was two of those three.
But with my youth and vitality
preserved in this body,
those limitations
are a thing of the past.
Wielding this ultimate skill,
it doesn't matter how lethal
my opponent's
attacks are, either...
Even Dai's best
became utterly useless.
Leona [thought]: Of
course he couldn't win.
Giga Strash is a mix of
magic and attack energy
that Dai focuses with
his Magic Sword.
He wasn't expecting
a counterattack
and a defensive field
at the same time.
If what he's saying is true,
anyone who charges
into that stance...
Their attack would be
neutralized, and simultaneously,
they'd be torn apart by
the combined strength
of his brute force
and Magic Power.
True Vearn : It seems I've
left even the iron-willed
Princess of Papnica
at a loss for words...
But what a lovely face.
Dai: S-Stop it.
Hm?
Dai: Get... away from her...
I'm warning you!
True Vearn: You may
have thought you were
shielded by your
Draconic Aura,
however, there's nothing
my Calamitous End can't cut.
Not a blade in this realm
can match a strike from
the side of my palm.
True Vearn: I wonder
if you realize...
I've left that wound
in exactly the same place
as the one you
inflicted upon me.
True Vearn: Measure for
measure, as they say.
Now to make you burn in
the fire of my wrath.
Let's see.
Yes, I think I've come up with
a very entertaining proposal.
Princess Leona...
I'll spare you... if you
agree to serve by my side.
Narrator: After using
his terrifying skill
to foil Dai's Giga Strash;
The Dark King sets
his gaze upon Leona,
intending to persuade
her to stand by his side
and break our Hero's spirit.
But when he meets
fierce resistance,
the first cracks begin
to form in Vearn.
Peril threatens to
close its jaws
around Dai for
the last time...
until Popp and
the others intervene.
See how it all unfolds -
next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Eye Jewel."